OK in this lesson we are going to flush out our fetch collections async generator function so that it
actually performs the asynchronous call of getting the collections inside of our firebase database before
we continue though there is a bit of a theoretical shift that we have to acknowledge about writing sagas.
That's different from how we wrote our thanks before.
Now when we moved our asynchronous code into our thunk code here into our fetch collection start async
method what we did was that we move the logic out of the shop component into this action which was great.
It was a great way for us to separate out that concern however when we did this we had to essentially
make this new action which was a thunk action that would be the one that dispatched fetch collection
start or it would inside then dispatch the success or the failure.
But this action was the thing that held the logic of dispatching the subsequent follow up actions of
updating our reducer or informing us that we had an error now instead of doing it in an action.
We now do it in a saga which is also why we switched our action that we fire inside of our shot page
back to the original fetch collection start action.
We no longer need an asynchronous action like our fetch collections start async to handle that logic.
We now move all of this into a saga and then have the saga listen for the start of that API redux chain
that we have whether it be the start.
Success or failure.
All of that logic is now going to be encapsulated inside of our fetch collections async generator function.
So let's start moving that code over.
While the first thing we gotta do is we are going to copy this code that has to deal with that asynchronous
logic and write it in a generator fashion.
Now we no longer need this dispatch anymore because we're not dispatching it from our saga.
We just need the base start to happen and then we listen for it and we also need to bring in all of
the tooling as well as the imported functionality that we need to use to do this logic.
So we need to bring in the FIA store and the convert collection snapshots a map right.
We need our utility functions from firebase firebase utility.
We also need our action creators from our shop actions.
And the ones we need is our fetch collections success and our fetch collections failure
now that we have those we can comment this out and slowly modify our code to repeat what we were doing
here before.
Now what we did here was that we got our collection.
After that we need to use this collection ref to actually get our snapshot but unlike before where we're
using a promised oriented dot then style we are using a generator function which is very similar to
async await in the sense that when we set this new snapshot value equal to the yielded value of running
collection ref.
Yet when this value comes back it comes back in a promised form that gets resolved with the value of
our collection reference which is our snapshot.
So instead of changing dot then and then getting the snapshot in the callback that we pass to our dot
then just like with async await we get it back at the constant value that we set on the left side of
our yield.
That value goes into this yield statement and it will set into the snapshot value that we've declared
right here.
Very similar to async await and then we need to actually create our collections map.
Now I'm going to show you something a little different about the way that we actually invoke our convert
collections snapshot to map method we still set a collection map constant except instead of calling
convert collection snapshots a map.
This way we're going to leverage a nother affect called Call now.
What call does is that call is the code.
Call is the effect inside of our generator function that invokes the method.
We can technically write this the exact same way.
No problem we can do this but we want to yield this in case this call takes longer than we expect right.
We want to be able to use this call method whenever we can.
Which is an effect that invokes functions.
All we did hear all the call syntax is is it's a method that takes as its first argument some function
or method and then the subsequent arguments will be the parameters that you passed into this function
call.
And because we're yielding this call it allows again us to defer control at this point of the execution
back to the saga middleware.
So in case it needs to cancel we give it another place where it's able to do so.
Beyond that this way of adding more yields wherever we can also makes it easier for us to test.
But once we have our value of collections map we're yielding again to the call and that once this value
gets evaluated we'll be set to our collections Matt so that's one thing about call we just have to keep
this in mind and I'll show you also wherever we can use it.
It's just a habit that we have to get used to after we do this.
We want to fire off this collections map into a dispatched fetch collection success.
If successful now you might be wondering before we had a catch on our promise.
Right.
How do we actually resolve and make sure that we're catching our errors.
Well it's going to be exactly like async await where we use a try catch block.
So here I'm going to do my try and put my code inside and then I'm going to catch my error and then
we'll dispatch these subsequent collections failure with the error message.
The other thing to remember is that inside of a generator function right inside of our saga generator
function sagas do not dispatch actions using the dispatch keyword.
Instead they use another effect called put puts is the saga effect for creating action and it's exactly
like dispatch.
The only difference is we have to yield it and we're just going to use it like a dispatch.
So we'll say Fetch collections success here and pass on our collections map because again put just puts
out or dispatches out an object right that it's expecting to have a type and a payload.
And again our fetch collection success.
These are all our action generators.
They're just functions that return us those objects and inside of our air will also yield our put fetch
collections failure with the error message and that is how we've converted our code to now use and leverage
the generator function syntax in order to create the asynchronous logic that we had before inside of
a thunk.
We now have it isolated into this fetch collection async generator function.
It's now saga RFID.
And if we go back to our app we see there are app works and when we look in our console we'll actually
see that fetch collections start happens and then when it succeeds you'll see here that it says that
a redux saga action was the one that fired so that's the main thing too is that our logger is aware
what type of action is being created and these are saga action.
They're pretty much operate like our own actions and our dispatches and our reducer and our middleware
treat them the exact same like there are actions.
It's just for us to verify that these are also saga actions.
So we know where our actions are coming from we'll see that all of our code in our application works
the exact same.
But the main difference is now we've moved our code out of our asynchronous action from before right
where we're using things and into a saga in the next lesson we're gonna take a deeper dive into these
takes because we've just written some sagas and there's probably still a couple questions that we need
to resolve or at least take a deeper look at that we will explore in the next lesson.